Israel's military has told DW it is
opening the arz border crossing to allow
more humanitarian Aid to enter through
Northern Gaza the first shipment of aade
to use the IRS Crossing is expected to
arrive directly from Jordan Israel
opened the rfak border crossing with
Egypt in November and the Kem Shalom
Crossing on the southern border with
Israel in December the Us and other
countries have also been airdropping Aid
and the US is the process of building a
floating Aid Pier off gaza's
Mediterranean
Coast DW's Tanya Kramer is near the aace
Crossing in gaza's north and sent us
this update a little earlier sending
here not far away from the arys crossing
that's uh one of the crossings that have
been closed since uh October 7th since
the attacks um this Crossing goes into
Northern Gaza mainly it's not very far
away from Gaza City now many countries
have been pressuring uh Israel to allow
in more Aid especially into Northern
Gaza and the United Nations have said
the situation there is a man-made crisis
now the opening of this Crossing would
allow trucks for Aid and for commercial
Goods a shorter journey through
dangerous territory while the war and of
course air bombardment is ongoing they
could come directly from the Port of
ashot or also uh from Jordan through the
land Crossings here but it remains to be
seen how much Aid will come through this
Crossing how much Aid will be allowed in
Shina Lo is the communications adviser
for the Norwegian Refugee Council in
Jerusalem and she explained why the
crossing needs to be
open well I think what we've heard from
thus far as far as I know only food Aid
is is being uh is entering through eras
but of course the people in Northern
Gaza need all sorts of of additional Aid
shelter items hygiene kits um bedding
clothes uh material fuel materials to to
uh desalinized and and sanitize water
all of these things need to be coming in
we have been calling for months now for
additional Crossings to be opening but
it's not just about getting the
crossings open it's ensuring that the
aid that's needed is reaching
Palestinians in the quantities that will
actually make a difference and help to
to stem the the and stop the
humanitarian crisis that has been
ongoing for the last seven months now
practically speaking how long will it
take for a delivered through ARS to
reach the people who
needed well that's unclear it depends on
a variety of things like I said it's not
just about opening The Crossings but
it's about having the ability to safely
deliver Aid wherever Palestinians are
and so that means uh ensuring that that
the notification system is working so
that humanitarians can can access eras
and also access the places that they
need in order to to carry out
distributions it means that we need the
materials things as simple as trucks to
to be able to go and fuel to be able to
carry out those distributions uh what's
desperately needed is is a not just a
handful of trucks which we've seen very
slight increases in the number of trucks
entering over the last couple of weeks
but we need a massive surge a flood of
humanitarian assistance thousands of
truck loads of of goods each and every
day entering Gaza now let's talk about
uh the south of the Gaza Strip Israel
has struck Targets in Rafa again today
what do you know about the situation
there the situation in Rafa remains dire
there are over a million Palestinians
still Sheltering in Rafa uh an Israeli a
planned or or expected Israeli ground
offensive into Rafa would be
catastrophic there simply is no safe
place in in Gaza for Palestinians to
flee to there aren't services available
for people Water Sanitation hygiene
Services uh housing and shelters to to
accommodate an influx of people the
situation remains dire as people are
searching for for everything from
shelter to food to water
uh in order to to keep their family uh
alive Sho there Communications adviser
for the Norwegian Refugee Council in
Jerusalem thank
Youk you the Israeli military's
confirmation comes during US Secretary
of State Anthony blinken's visit he is
meeting with Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu work continues on a
ceasefire in Gaza as well as a deal to
release the hostages that are still
being held by Hamas and the flow of Aid
into the war torn region it is blink's
seventh diplomatic visit to the Middle
East since Israel's military response to
the Hamas Terror attacks in October last
year for more let's uh bring inw
correspondent Rebecca rtis who joins us
from Jerusalem Rebecca what can you tell
us about this meeting between blinkin
and
Netanyahu well these meetings tend to be
closed door there was no press
conference following the meeting but
stuff that we are starting to here come
out of it Gard is that Netanyahu told
Lincoln that he wouldn't accept any
ceasefire deal where Hamas maintain the
demand for a permanent ceasefire uh he
said that that is something that he
wouldn't agree to and if they stuck by
that demand then the deal would be off
and the Israeli military would march on
into Rafa that southern city uh now
blink reiterated the US position he said
that the US do not think that that is
the best way forward that they do not
agree that a ground offensive in Rafa is
necessary and that it would be better
handled by more targeted attacks blink
certainly here to push for a ceasefire
deal that's certainly one of the things
that is really topping his agenda in
this whole Middle East Tour that he's
making as you mentioned the 7th since
October 7 um you know you know the
ceasefire was the predominant thing that
we're hearing coming out of the meeting
that the two men discussed blinkin also
praised Israel for allowing more
humanitarian Aid to come through but he
said more still needs to be done I mean
it's probably no coincidence that this
arz Crossing is due to open today on the
day that Bzz blink visits given the
pressure that the US has put on for Gaza
sorry for Israel to get more Aid into
Gaza now blink has also met with the
families uh of the hostages what did he
have to say to
them well that's also another really
standard thing as I said seventh visit
and each time that blink has come he's
met with families of the hostages and
you can imagine the kinds of things that
he's telling them offering them any kind
of Hope or wisdom that he can saying
that the US is fully uh supporting and
behind and putting pressure on for a
ceasefire deal that he he hopes that
every single one of their loved ones
will return home he in fact said that
they us won't rest until every man woman
soldier civilian young or old is
returned and back with their families
but one man who who does have family in
uh in Gaza said that Lincoln was very
honest when he spoke to them he spoke to
Media afterwards and said that uh that
blinkin said he was very honest saying
that they have little power to put
pressure on a ceasefire deals so you
know very limited with what he can tell
these families but certainly trying to
offer them some hope thew correspondent
Rebecca R is there reporting from
Jerusalem thank you Rebecca